The earthquake struck at 05h27 when most people were still a sleep.  A small number of users in the vicinity had the At Altitude client still running from previous activities.  For those near the epicenter the motion module detected enough of a shock that it created a suspected but unconfirmed critsit on their user account.  Because of the number of suspected critsits in one area, the At Altitude server created a geofence and notified the AA DevOps Team that there was a significant anomaly.  Just a few minutes later the [USGS feed](http://www.usgs.gov) signaled a 7.2 earthquake in the same area.

The DevOps team watched as the number of user spiked up in the minutes after the quake and were impressed to see that maps started to show where telephone services outages were within the effected region.  In the hours and days after the event they were able to use the data to understand the progress of telephone repair crews.  Many friends of those in the quake area were unable to get thru on the congested phone line but were happy to see that their friends were on line and were moving within their neighborhoods.  

In the following days, the system asked various users in the affected region question about their needs in the recovery process.  Goefence specific messages were sent to users in one area were there were problems with access to fresh water and another where a hospital was badly damaged and had to be closed.  The DevOps Team continued to impressed by the number of new users and new friend connections came from each natural disaster.  Even people on the opposite side of the planet, who knew no one in the effected area were able to see the power of the ad hoc social network to aid those in harm's way.